= Olasılık Hesap Makinesi
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: /tr/modules/ROOT/assets/images]

image:18px-Menu_view_probability.svg.png[Menu view probability.svg,width=18,height=18] _Olasılık Hesap Makinesi_,
GeoGebra'nın ana perspektiflerinden biridir. Onu, olasılık dağılımlarını hesaplamak ve grafiklerini çizmenin yanı sıra
istatistik testlerini yönetmek için kullanabilirsiniz.

== Dağılımlar

_Dağılımlar_ sekmesi size, çeşitli olasılık dağılımlarının grafiklerini çizme imkanı verir. Sadece aşağı açılır menüde
sunulan listeden çalışmak istediğiniz dağılımı (örneğin Normal, Binom) seçin ve GeoGebra bu dağılımın grafiğini sizin
için çizsin. Ardından, dağılımın parametrelerini komşu metin kutularında ayarlayabilirsiniz.

Dağılımın görünümünü değiştirmek için sunulan düğmeleri de kullanabilirsiniz:

* image:Cumulative_distribution.png[Cumulative distribution.png,width=16,height=16] Dağılımın olasılık yoğunluk
fonksiyonu ve birikimli dağılım fonksiyonu arasında geçiş yapar
* /en_Special:Upload?wpDestFile=İnterval_left_png.adoc[16px]
/en_Special:Upload?wpDestFile=İnterval_between_png.adoc[16px]
/en_Special:Upload?wpDestFile=İnterval_right_png.adoc[16px] Birikimli olasılığı (örneğin _P(x ≤ X)_, _P(x ≥ X)_)
hesaplamak için grafiğinizi değiştirin. Bir olasılığı hesaplamak için sunulan düğmeleri kullanarak aralık türünü seçin.
Ardından komşu metin kutularında aralığı ayarlayın veya karşılık gelen işaretleyicileri grafik içinde _x_-ekseni boyunca
sürükleyin.

[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|===
a|
image:Probability-Calculator-View-Distribution.png[Probability-Calculator-View-Distribution.png,width=858,height=705]

_Olasılık Hesap Makinesi_: _Dağılım_ Sekmesi

|===

== Olasılık Hesap Makinesi Stil Çubuğu

The _Probability Calculator Stylebar_ provides options to
image:Normal-overlay.png[Normal-overlay.png,width=16,height=16] overlay your distribution with the _Normal Curve_ and to
image:Export16.png[Export16.png,width=16,height=16] export the graph.

[NOTE]
====

You may export your distribution as a picture file (.png), copy it to your computer's clipboard (GeoGebra Desktop) or
copy it to the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/s_index_php?title=Graphics_View_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Graphics View] (GeoGebra Desktop).

====

*Drag and Drop*: In the GeoGebra Desktop Version, you may use _Drag and Drop_ in order to transfer the plot of your
distribution either to the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16] _Graphics
View_ or to another application that will accept images. Just position the mouse at the top of the
image:18px-Menu_view_probability.svg.png[Menu view probability.svg,width=18,height=18] _Probability Calculator_ screen
and the cursor will change to a hand cursor. This new cursor allows you to drag the plot into
image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16] _Graphics View 1_ or _2_ to create a
new plot or to drag an image of the plot into another application.

== Statistics

Tab _Statistics_ allows you to conduct a variety of statistical tests. Just select the test you want to work with from
the list available in the drop down menu (e.g. _Z Test of a Mean_) and specify your _Null Hypothesis_, as well as your
_Alternative Hypothesis_. Then, adjust the parameters of your test in the provided text boxes and GeoGebra will
automatically provide the results of your statistical test.

[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|===
a|
image:Probability-Calculator-View-Statistics.png[Probability-Calculator-View-Statistics.png,width=406,height=705]

_Probability Calculator_: Tab _Statistics_

|===
