= Geometria ablak
:page-en: Graphics_View
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: /hu/modules/ROOT/assets/images]

Az xref:/Eszköztár.adoc[eszköztárban] található xref:/Eszközök.adoc[szerkesztő eszközök] segítségével egerünkkel
geometriai szerkesztéseket végezhetünk a Geometria ablakban. Bármely eszközt kiválasztva, az eszköztár végén megjelenik
annak súgója, így segítve az eszköz használatát. A Geometria ablakban létrehozott alakzatok leírása azonnal megjelenik
az xref:/Algebra_nézet.adoc[Algebra nézetben].

[NOTE]
====

*Jegyzet:* Ha a image:Tool_Move.gif[Tool Move.gif,width=32,height=32] xref:/tools/Mozgatás.adoc[Mozgatás eszközt]
választjuk, alakzatunkat módosíthatjuk az egér húzásával. Ezzel egyidőben az alakzat leírása is aktualizálódik az
Algebra nézetben.

====

Az eszköztárban található valamennyi ikon egy eszközkészletet reprezentál, mely hasonló funkciójú eszközökből áll. Ezt
az eszközkészletet megjeleníthetjük, ha az adott eszköz jobb alsó sarkában található nyílra kattintunk.

[NOTE]
====

*Jegyzet:* A szerkesztő eszközök részben a létrehozott alakzat típusa szerint, részben az eszközök funkciója szerint
kerültek csoportosításra. Találhatunk eszközöket, melyekkel pontokat hozhatunk létre xref:/tools/Pont_eszközök.adoc[Pont
eszközök] (default icon image:Tool_New_Point.gif[Tool New Point.gif,width=32,height=32]) és eszközöket, melyekkel
geometriai transzformációkat valósíthatunk meg xref:/tools/Transzformációs_eszközök.adoc[Transzformációs eszközök]
(default icon image:Tool_Reflect_Object_in_Line.gif[Tool Reflect Object in Line.gif,width=32,height=32]).

====

The Graphics View may include various types of grid and axes – see
xref:/s_index_php?title=Customizing_the_Graphics_View_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Customizing the Graphics View] for
details.

== Formázóléc

You can find a button to toggle the styling bar in the upper right corner of the Graphics-View. Depending on the tool
you select, there are shown different buttons to enhance your construction. By default you are able to _show/hide the
coordinate axes_ and the _grid_ or change the xref:/s_index_php?title=Options_Menu_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[point
capturing]. Additionally there are buttons _set color_, _set point style_, _set label style_, _set line style_, _set
color and transparency_, _set text color_, _set font style to bold_, _set font style to italic_ or _set text size_.

== Second Graphics View

A second graphics view may be opened using the xref:/s_index_php?title=View_Menu_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[View Menu].
If two Graphics Views are opened, one of them is always active (either it's being worked with and it has bold caption,
or it is the last view that has been worked with). All visible objects created by
xref:/s_index_php?title=Commands_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Commands] appear in the active graphics view. For each
object you can specify in which Graphic View(s) it will be visible using the _Advanced_ tab of the
xref:/s_index_php?title=Properties_Dialog_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Properties Dialog].

== Copy & Paste

Via Keybord Shortcut [.kcode]#Ctrl# + [.kcode]#C# and [.kcode]#Ctrl# + [.kcode]#V# (Mac OS:[.kcode]#Cmd# + [.kcode]#C#
and [.kcode]#Cmd# + [.kcode]#V#) you can Copy and Paste selected object (except if they depend on the axes) into either
the same window or into another. Copy & Paste will copy every ancestor of the selected objects but makes the
non-selected objects invisible. If you copy objects depending on sliders into a new window, it will copy the slider
(invisible) into the window, too. The pasted object is fixed when you click on the Graphics View. If the copied object
depends at least one Point then it can snap onto existing points when pasted (but only the Point following the mouse
pointer will do this).

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|===
a|
image:48px-UnderConstruction.png[UnderConstruction.png,width=48,height=48]

|Some content was not yet translated.
|===
