= 슬라이더 도구
:page-en: tools/Slider
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: /ko/modules/ROOT/assets/images]

Click on any free place in the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/s_index_php?title=Graphics_View_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Graphics View] to create a slider for a number or an
angle. The appearing dialog window allows you to specify the _Name_, _Interval_ [_min_, _max_], and _Increment_ of the
number or angle, as well as the _Alignment_ and _Width_ of the slider (in pixels), and its _Speed_ and _Animation_
modality.

[NOTE]
====

In the Slider dialog window you can enter a degree symbol ° or _pi (π)_ for the interval and increment by using the
following keyboard shortcuts:

* _Alt-O_ for the degree symbol °
* _Alt-P_ for the pi symbol _π_

====

The position of a slider may be absolute in the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view
graphics.svg,width=16,height=16] _Graphics View_ (this means that the slider is not affected by zooming, but always
remains in the visible part of the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16]
_Graphics View_) or relative to the coordinate system (This can be changed afterwards in the
image:16px-Menu-options.svg.png[Menu-options.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/s_index_php?title=Properties_Dialog_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Properties Dialog] of the corresponding number or
angle).

[NOTE]
====

* In GeoGebra, a slider is the graphical representation of a
xref:/s_index_php?title=Numbers_and_Angles_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[free number or free angle]. You can easily create
a slider for any existing xref:/s_index_php?title=Numbers_and_Angles_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[free number or angle] by
showing this object in the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/s_index_php?title=Graphics_View_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Graphics View] (see
xref:/s_index_php?title=Context_Menu_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Context Menu]; see tool
image:22px-Mode_showhideobject.svg.png[Mode showhideobject.svg,width=22,height=22]
xref:/s_index_php?title=Show_Hide_Object_Tool_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Show/Hide Object]).

====

== Fixed sliders

Like other objects, sliders can be xref:/s_index_php?title=Object_Properties_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[fixed]. To
translate a fixed slider when image:22px-Mode_move.svg.png[Mode
move.svg,width=22,height=22]xref:/s_index_php?title=Move_Tool_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Move Tool] is selected, you can
drag it with your right mouse button. When image:26px-Mode_slider.svg.png[Mode slider.svg,width=26,height=26] *Slider
Tool* is selected, you can use either left or right button. Sliders made with the image:26px-Mode_slider.svg.png[Mode
slider.svg,width=26,height=26] *Slider Tool* are fixed by default. You can change value of fixed slider by simply
clicking it.

[NOTE]
====

See also the xref:/s_index_php?title=Slider_Command_action=edit_redlink=1.adoc[Slider] command.

====
